So now we're going to start playing
with taking our Python applications and
changing the source of their data.
Up till now we've been reading files.
The mailbox file, the Romeo file.
But often a lot of what
you need to do is look
at data that's coming
in from the Internet.
And so we're going to look at how we write
Python programs to talk to the Internet.
And what we're going to do is we're going to
play with the request-response cycle
that your browser does.
And so, your browser, when you're clicking
on pages or watching this, is talking
across the Internet to servers, and we're
going to take a look at the protocols and
all the kinds of things
that are happening.
Your browser displays web pages and
runs JavaScript,
and does this, that, and the other thing.
And then it sends commands across
the Internet to these servers,
and the servers run server languages
like PHP or MySQL, and send stuff back.
And so we're going to spend our time in this
section sort of learning about this area.
What's going on back and
forth, and back and forth,
as your web browser's
talking to the Internet.
And then what we're going to do, is we're
gonna write a Python program over here.
And our Python program is going to talk
the same protocol as your web browser, and
we're going to do this
to read information so
that we can read information
across the Internet.
Now I'm going to talk really quickly
through some of what the Internet is.
That is a whole class.
I wrote a whole book called Introduction
to Networking that talks all about these
kind of things, and
if you need more detail then go ahead and
get ahold of that book.
There's also a free copy
online of this book.
And I also teach another Coursera class,
Internet History, Technology, and
Security, that goes into much
more detail than this lecture.
And so if you're interested in that,
you can stop and
go take that class right now in
its entirety and then come back.
But now this is the short version
the too long, don't read.
This is a picture of
the network architecture,
the TCP/IP Transport Control Protocol,
and it's this layered architecture.
And these two ends, this is your computer
and this is the server's computer.
And the data sort of works its way through
various elements of your computer,
walks across the network, and then takes
multiple hops, actually many hops,
as it goes across, and then finally
makes it into the destination computer.
And then the data that you're
getting from that computer sort of
walks its way back through all these hops.
Walk back, back, back, back,
and then the application.
And so this is your web browser, and
this is the web server over here.
And again I teach class
upon class about this, and
you can go take all those classes.
And so, there's lots of detail
that we're not going to cover.
There is a layer that is
the first end-to-end layer.
We call it the Transport Layer,
where your web browser on this end and
the web server on this end,
in effect makes a connection and
doesn't worry about all this detail,
kind of ignores all this detail.
Says, I'm going to talk to this end point.
And then gets its data back and
then the data comes back.
And so
the first thing we're going to talk about
is this peer-to-peer Transport Layer.
The way that, effectively,
computer applications make telephone
calls from one application to the other.
And so there's a lot of cool stuff
that happens, and like I said,
I wrote a whole book on this stuff and
you're welcome to go look at all that.
But first we're going to really focus
on how this works inside of Python.
So a socket can be best
thought of as a connection
that we don't worry too much about.
When you make a phone call and you
start talking to somebody on the phone,
you don't worry about the magic that gets
this phone talking to the cell tower, or
anything like that.
You just say,
I need to connect to a person,
and then once the connection's
made you do your talking.
And applications inside of
computers do the same thing.
And we call this abstraction,
this concept, a socket.
A socket is two computer applications or
computer processes that
are talking across a network.
And they sort of have this
one end point.
One that puts stuff in and
pulls stuff back out.
And then there's all this magic
that happens in the middle, and
it's really complex.
And then the other's getting stuff
out and putting stuff back in.
And so the socket is sort
of like this abstraction
that gives us like a phone
call between two applications.
In the beginning this will
be like a web server.
And this is the code that you're
going to write, this is our code.
But socket is the way that it talks.
Now we're doing something similar
when we talk about files.
So your code runs here, and
if you remember we had a file handle and
there's a disk drive out
here that has data on it.
And we'd use an open call and
we'd read stuff back and forth.
So that was our way of saying a file
handle is a way to look at a file and
get stuff from it.
A socket is a way to look at a connection
to another process on the end of it and
then get data back.
So both of these are like portholes
that allow us to look out of our
application to somewhere else in
the world and exchange data with that.
And so, when you're making a connection,
different applications, like there's
applications like email and the Web.
And the Web is the application
we're going to play with,
but these applications can
all run on the same server.
And so these applications have what's
called a port number, and each port
is a way to say, you know what, I want to
talk to the web server on this host, or
I want to talk to the email
server on this host,
or I want to talk to the network
news server on this host, etc., etc.
And so these are like extensions
within phone numbers.
And so if you have one big server,
and it has the ability to do email,
there's an email server application.
This side here is the server now and
this is our client, like a browser.
Well, this is not a browser,
this is a browser, that's a browser.
So the client is the thing
initiating the connection,
the server's the thing reacting to it.
And the way they find each other
is through these port numbers.
So there would be a mail application,
an application to do log in,
a web server, or a personal mailbox.
And these things connect themselves to
various ports, and say I will listen for
connections to come in.
And then when your web
browser starts up and
it wants to make a connection to the web
server at University of Michigan,
it makes a connection to port 80, and
port 80 is then routed to the web server.
The web server reads data somewhere and
then gives us this stuff back, okay?
And so there is this thing called the IP
address, which is like the phone number
of the destination computer, and it's
equivalent to the domain name address.
Remember, there's a whole class
that explains this if you.
And it turns out that this isn't
all that essential, [LAUGH],
once we start programming.
I just kind of want to give you
a sense of what's going on.
And so there is a domain name address
that turns into an IP address
that's the real address of the computer.
And then within that there's like this
extension that says I'm going to talk
to the web server.
And you could, using different numbers,
port 80 turns out to be the one we'll use
the most, and it's the way that
you talk to the web server.
So you talk to a host on the Internet, and
then talk within that host to
a particular piece of software.
Okay, so some of the common TCP ports,
HTTP, which is the web server,
the secure web server's port 443,
mail's on 25, secure login is on 22.
And so every time someone builds
a new application protocol,
they come up with a new port for it.
And then all the clients that want to
talk to that protocol know what port to
talk to.
Sometimes you'll use a web browser, and
you will see a colon after
the end of the host name and
that's what's happening when a web server
is running on a port other than port 80.
So this happens to be a development
situation where I'm actually running on
localhost.
Which is if I was doing software web
development on my computer I would talk
to localhost which is talking
to myself and then on port 8085.
It just means that it's
a port other than port 80.
So these are the normal ports,
like 80's the normal web port, but
it doesn't have to be port 80.
Okay, with all that, that's a lot of
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Now we're going to talk about
how it happens in Python.
And the beauty of this is
there is a really nice library
in Python called socket library.
We import a socket.
So we say, import socket.
That makes available to us
a whole bunch of library code
that allows us to make sockets.
And then, this is kind of like fopen.
It's like open,
when we're doing file handles.
If you think about our application
as having these portholes that
allow us to talk to disk drives or
allow us to talk to the network.
This is our way of opening
a porthole out through the network.
And so we say socket.socket.
It's a little bit of a weird syntax.
This is the library and
this is the method within the library.
So that says make a socket which basically
says, open me a porthole outside of my
computer. And these next two parameters,
you'll probably never change them,
but what they really say is, this says
I'm going to make an Internet socket and
it's a stream socket.
A stream socket means that
I'm just going to send data, and
I'm going to get back the data and
just keep track of the data.
Give it back to me in order.
There are ways to use it at a lower level
where you're not getting it back in order,
but these two things,
you just are going to put those things in.
Now this actually has not
connected the socket.
So we have our application.
The socket effectively opens
a porthole to the outside world, and
there is nothing connected
to the other side.
And we get back this variable, mysock.
Kind of like file open.
It's almost like you say
I'm going to open a file but
I don't want to tell you what
the name of the file is until later.
But here is where we do.
When we take this thing we get back
from socket, and it says please connect.
Please establish
a connection between me and
go across the Internet and
find the host www.py4inf.com.
That's a host.
And then go to port 80 on that.
So this second thing is the port.
So we're saying, so we start the socket.
And then we effectively say, dear socket,
I want the other end of you to be this
server with that address over there.
And so at that point,
if there is a web server connected,
then we can actually send data
back and forth.
So that is the number of lines to
establish a connection between our running
Python program and a server on
an application running on the far end.
You can't just connect to anywhere or
anything.
There has to be running software
waiting for your connection to show up.
But that's the only three lines of Python.
And so it's a good example of how
something extremely complex, that took
40 years to develop, the Internet, and
now in Python we do a single
import statement of import socket.
And then magically we
can code over top of it,
without even knowing any of
the details whatsoever.
And of course that's what this xkcd of
import antigravity is talking about.
So, the next thing I want to
do is talk about moving from
making a socket connection to
actually solving a problem.
So sockets are like making a phone call,
and applications are what you say and
expect to hear on those phone calls.